## 2019-04-23

 #spikeforest #mountaintools #forestview #spike-front

There are now actual pypi packages for mountaintools and spikeforest. Right now we are on the following versions:
```
pip install --upgrade mountaintools==0.2.6
pip install --upgrade spikeforest==0.5.4
```

But the development version of both is in the master branch of the flatironinstitute/spikeforest repo

And the dev version can be installed as usual:

```
cd spikeforest
pip install -e ./mountaintools
pip install -e ./spikeforest
```

I just merged in a bunch of changes to spikeforest and mountaintools... so if you really need the pre-modification version, i tagged it as "last_non_pkg"... meaning the last version before moving to proper packages.

The main change was moving away from "share_id" arguments and toward "upload_to" and "download_from" arguments. I am using kachery nodes rather than kbucket nodes for storing sha1-addressable content.

SpikeForest still depends on v0.3.1 of spikeextractors... but at some time we will make the switch to the updated version.

I am using a git fake submodules strategy (see http://debuggable.com/posts/git-fake-submodules:4b563ee4-f3cc-4061-967e-0e48cbdd56cb) for including the mountaintools and spikeforest as subprojects of flatironinstitute/spikeforest while at the same time they are their own repos -- so they can get auto-deployed using travis.

I am now using bumpversion to increment versions and auto-tag for release the two packages (mt and sf). See .bumpversion.cfg in mountaintools/ and spikeforest/

Here are up-to-date instructions on the full spikeforest processing pipeline for getting data into the website: https://github.com/flatironinstitute/spikeforest/blob/master/docs/full_analysis.md

It includes loading the data into the database used by the website.

I updated vdomr so that we have ForestView (and all the associated widgets) running in 4 distinct modes: desktop (pyqt5), web server (uses python tornado), jupyter notebook, google colab notebook.

Updates are going into the `docs/updates` directory.